---
title: 魔鬼营精读课
description: 网络毁掉了语言吗？
layout: theme-li
btn-wirte-exp: true
footer-type: 1
topic-id: 53
topic-name: 魔鬼训练营
share-title: 魔鬼营精读课|士
share-description: XX
share-icon-url:  "123"
---

<h1 style="color:red">
The internet is changing language less than curmudgeons fear
</h1>

<p style="text-align:center"><span style="background: rgb(242, 187, 66);color:#fff; font-size: ">Instead it is helping explain how language works</span></p> 

001 <i>What is technology doing to language? Many assume the answer is simple: ruining it</i>. Kids can no longer write except in text-speak. Grammar <strong>is going to the dogs</strong>. The ability to compose thoughts longer than a tweet is <strong>waning</strong>. 

<center><strong><kbd>waning</kbd></strong></center>

<center><strong><kbd>go to the dogs</kbd></strong></center>


科技之于语言是什么？不少觉得是负面作用， 正如这里的<b>ruin</b>. 写起字来，不成体统， going to the dogs有几分世风日下的感慨。 

世人的功底好像就一落千丈了。是吗？不见得吧。 

文字这种东西，那过去的标准来衡量好像并不公允。 比如提起汉朝，是赋。 唐朝是诗， 宋朝词。

现在说词，境界不逊唐诗。 事实上相当于一段长的时期， 词就不登大雅之堂。 查查词的来源就了然了。 

不另说小说了，夫子会教写诗写赋，但也不会教散文， 林语堂谈小说是


<div style="background: lightsteelblue;padding:15px;font-size:12px; border: 1px lightgrey"> 
 grown without cultivation. And it gave without expected return.
</div> 
 这么看来，互联网时代的文字某种程度上也属于grown with cultivation, expected return应该也是可以期待的结果才是～


<div style="color:peachpuff;font-size:11.5px; border: 1px lightgrey">

assume <br>
go to the dogs <br>
compose <br>
wane 

</div>

 002 <i>Language experts tend to resist that gloom, <strong>noting</strong> that there is little proof that speech is really</i> <b>degenerating</b>: kids may say “lol” out loud sometimes, but this is a marginal phenomenon. Nor is formal writing <b>falling apart</b>.  

<small>Sentences like “omg wtf William teh Conqueror pwned Harold at Hastings in 1066!” tend to be written by middle-aged columnists trying to imitate children’s supposed habits. A study by Cambridge Assessment, a British exam-setter, found almost no evidence for text-speak in students’ writing. </small> 

专家说，对于语言，互联网并没有起败坏作用。

<center><strong><kbd>fall apart</kbd></strong></center>. 

<center><strong><kbd>degenerate</kbd></strong></center>. 

<div style="color:peachpuff;font-size:11.5px; border: 1px lightgrey">
resist <br>
gloom <br>
degenerate<br>
conqueror<br>
columnist <br>
</div>

003 <i>Fortunately, the story of language and the internet has attracted more serious analysts, too</i>. Now Gretchen McCulloch, a prolific language blogger and journalist—and herself of the generation that grew up with the internet—joins them with a new book, “Because Internet”. <u>Rather than obsessing about what the internet is doing to language, it largely focuses on what can be learned about language from the internet</u>. 

<center><strong><kbd>句子分析</kbd></strong></center>


<div style="background: lightsteelblue;padding:15px;font-size:12px; border: 1px lightgrey">
Rather than obsessing about what the internet is doing to language, it largely focuses on what can be learned about language from the internet.

</div>

<div style="text-align:center;color:salmon;font-size:14px; border: 1px lightgrey">

rather than A, it focuses on B. 

</div>

<small>Biologists grow bacteria in a Petri dish partly because of those organisms’ <b>short lifespans</b>: they are born and reproduce so quickly that studies over many generations can be done in a reasonably <b>short period</b>. Studying language online is a bit like that: trends appear and disappear, platforms rise and fall, and these let linguists observe dynamics that would otherwise take too much time.</small>


<div style="color:peachpuff;font-size:11.5px; border: 1px lightgrey">
analyst<br>
prolific<br>
obesess<br>
Petri dish皮氏培养皿<br>
lifespan<br>
linguist<br>
</div>

004 <i>For example</i>, why do languages change? A thousand years ago, early versions of English and Icelandic were closely related, possibly even mutually intelligible. English has since evolved hugely, and Icelandic, far less. 

<small>Linguists have studied the relative effects of strong ties (friends, family) and weaker acquaintanceships in such patterns</small>, <b>hypothesising</b> that <strong>small communities would host more stable languages</strong>. 

<small> A computer <i>simulation</i> proved that a mix of strong and weak ties—close-knit groups existing in a larger sea—allowed language-change “leaders” to disseminate updates to the wider population. </small>

<small><i>Twitter</i> combines strong and weak ties—and sure enough, drives more language change than <i>Facebook</i>, which is more dominated by strong ties. That, in turn, helps explain the conservatism of Icelandic (more like Facebook) and the mutability of English (more like Twitter).</small>


<div style="color:peachpuff;font-size:11.5px; border: 1px lightgrey">
version
intelligible
evolve
acquaintanceship
hypothesise
simulation
disseminate 
dominate
conservatism
mutability

</div>

005 <i>Emoji, odd as they may look, also reflect something universal</i>. They are not a language (try telling a complex story in emoji to someone who doesn’t know it already). <b>They are</b>, Ms McCulloch argues, <b>the digital equivalent of gestures</b>. 

Those come in two types. 

<small>“Emblems”, like a thumbs-up or a wink, have a fixed meaning and form. But “co-speech” gestures—wincing, gesticulating, pointing—are spontaneous and more variable. And emoji come in these same flavours. </small>

<small>People randomly combine many co-speech-style emoji, <b>but</b> are <b>more</b> restrained in mixing emblems. Just as it would make no sense to give someone the finger while shaking your head to negate it, emblematic emoji often stand alone rather than in expressive chains.</small>

<small>Other online “innovations” are not really new, either. Philosophers have previously tried to invent a marker for irony—a backwards question-mark or an upside-down exclamation point, for example—before online types succeeded with the sarcastic ~tilde~. The first use of omg long preceded computers. Those who worry about teens speaking “hashtag” aloud (“Good for you—hashtag sarcasm!”) might consider the last time they punctuated an utterance by saying “full stop” or “period”.</small>


<div style="color:peachpuff;font-size:11.5px; border: 1px lightgrey">
universal
equivalent of 
gesticulate
spontaneous
variable
flavour
ramdomly 
restrain
negate
emblematic 
innovation
philosopher
irony 
exclamation
sarcasm

</div>

006 <i>In the end, Ms McCulloch’s book is about the birth of a new medium rather than a new language.</i> <u>For millennia, speech was all there was. </u> For most of “recorded” history, nearly everyone was illiterate. Then, in the age of the printing press and mass literacy, writing acquired a kind of primacy, seen as prestigious, a standard to be learned and imitated (often even in speech).

会写文章的人曾经是一个高门槛， 士农工商的分级就可见一斑～

旧时，舞文弄墨属于精英们的日常。兴之所致，对酒当歌，赏月成诵。


<div style="color:peachpuff;font-size:11.5px; border: 1px lightgrey">
millennia 
speech 
record
illiterate
literacy 
acquire
primacy 
prestigious
standard
imitate

</div>

007 Future historians may regard that epoch of <b>reverence</b> as unusual. <b>Mass reading has now been joined by mass writing: frequent, error-filled and evanescent—like speech</b>. 

Little surprise that internet users have created tools to give their writing the gesture, playfulness and even meaninglessness of chitchat. 

<b>Mistaking it for the downfall of “real” writing is a category error</b>. Anything that helps people enjoy each other’s company can only be a good thing.

<center><strong><kbd>mistaking A for B is a/an (adj) error</kbd></strong></center>. 


<div style="color:peachpuff;font-size:11.5px; border: 1px lightgrey">
historian 
epoch
reverence 
evanescent
gesture
playfulness
meaninglessness
category
company

</div>

<center><strong><kbd>以下单词被2020考研英语大纲词汇收录</kbd></strong></center>

